connect/connect-azure-data-lake-storage-gen2-sink/README.md, before:

# Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 Sink connector

## Objective

Quickly test [Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 Sink](https://docs.confluent.io/current/connect/kafka-connect-azure-data-lake-gen2-storage/index.html#quick-start) connector.
## Pre-requisites

* `docker-compose` (example `brew cask install docker`)

* `az`(example `brew install azure-cli`)

## How to run

Simply run:

```
$ ./azure-data-lake-storage-gen2.sh
```

Or using 2 way SSL authentication:

```bash
$ ./azure-data-lake-storage-gen2-2way-ssl.sh
```

## Details of what the script is doing

Logging to Azure using browser

```bash
az login
```

Add the CLI extension for Azure Data Lake Gen 2

```bash
$ az extension add --name storage-preview
```

Creating resource $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP in $AZURE_REGION

```bash
$ az group create \
    --name $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --location $AZURE_REGION
```

Registering active directory App $AZURE_AD_APP_NAME

```bash
$ AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID=$(az ad app create --display-name "$AZURE_AD_APP_NAME" --password mypassword --native-app false --available-to-other-tenants false --query appId -o tsv)
```

Creating Service Principal associated to the App

```bash
$ SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_ID=$(az ad sp create --id $AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID | jq -r '.objectId')
$ AZURE_TENANT_ID=$(az account list | jq -r '.[].tenantId')
$ AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT="https://login.microsoftonline.com/$AZURE_TENANT_ID/oauth2/token"
```

Creating data lake $AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME in resource $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP

```bash
$ az storage account create \
    --name $AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME \
    --resource-group $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --location $AZURE_REGION \
    --sku Standard_LRS \
    --kind StorageV2 \
    --hierarchical-namespace true
```

Assigning Storage Blob Data Owner role to Service Principal $SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_ID

```bash
$ az role assignment create --assignee $SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_ID --role "Storage Blob Data Owner"
```

### With no security in place (PLAINTEXT):

The connector is created with:

```bash
$ docker exec -e AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID="$AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID" -e AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME="$AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME" -e AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT="$AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT" connect \
     curl -X PUT \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     --data '{
               "connector.class": "io.confluent.connect.azure.datalake.gen2.AzureDataLakeGen2SinkConnector",
                    "tasks.max": "1",
                    "topics": "datalake_topic",
                    "flush.size": "3",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.client.id": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID"'",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.client.key": "mypassword",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.account.name": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME"'",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.token.endpoint": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT"'",
                    "format.class": "io.confluent.connect.azure.storage.format.avro.AvroFormat",
                    "confluent.license": "",
                    "confluent.topic.bootstrap.servers": "broker:9092",
                    "confluent.topic.replication.factor": "1"
          }' \
     http://localhost:8083/connectors/azure-datalake-gen2-sink/config | jq .
```

Sending messages to topic datalake_topic

```bash
$ seq -f "{\"f1\": \"value%g\"}" 10 | docker exec -i connect kafka-avro-console-producer --broker-list broker:9092 --property schema.registry.url=http://schema-registry:8081 --topic datalake_topic --property value.schema='{"type":"record","name":"myrecord","fields":[{"name":"f1","type":"string"}]}'
```

Listing ${AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_KEY} in Azure Blob Storage

```bash
$ az storage blob list --account-name "${AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME}" --container-name topics
```

Getting one of the avro files locally and displaying content with avro-tools

```bash
$ az storage blob download  --container-name topics --name datalake_topic/partition=0/datalake_topic+0+0000000000.avro --file /tmp/datalake_topic+0+0000000000.avro --account-name "${AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME}"
```

Results:

```json
{"f1":"value1"}
{"f1":"value2"}
{"f1":"value3"}
```

### With SSL authentication:

The connector is created with:

```bash
$ docker exec -e AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID="$AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID" -e AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME="$AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME" -e AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT="$AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT" connect \
     curl -X PUT \
     --cert /etc/kafka/secrets/connect.certificate.pem --key /etc/kafka/secrets/connect.key --tlsv1.2 --cacert /etc/kafka/secrets/snakeoil-ca-1.crt \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     --data '{
               "connector.class": "io.confluent.connect.azure.datalake.gen2.AzureDataLakeGen2SinkConnector",
                    "tasks.max": "1",
                    "topics": "datalake_topic",
                    "flush.size": "3",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.client.id": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID"'",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.client.key": "mypassword",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.account.name": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME"'",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.token.endpoint": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT"'",
                    "format.class": "io.confluent.connect.azure.storage.format.avro.AvroFormat",
                    "confluent.license": "",
                    "confluent.topic.bootstrap.servers": "broker:9092",
                    "confluent.topic.replication.factor": "1",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.keystore.location" : "/etc/kafka/secrets/kafka.connect.keystore.jks",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.keystore.password" : "confluent",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.key.password" : "confluent",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.truststore.location" : "/etc/kafka/secrets/kafka.connect.truststore.jks",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.truststore.password" : "confluent",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.keystore.type" : "JKS",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.truststore.type" : "JKS",
                    "confluent.topic.security.protocol" : "SSL"
          }' \
     https://localhost:8083/connectors/azure-datalake-gen2-sink/config | jq .
```

Notes:

Broker config has `KAFKA_SSL_PRINCIPAL_MAPPING_RULES: RULE:^CN=(.*?),OU=TEST.*$$/$$1/,DEFAULT`. This is because we don't want to set user `CN=connect,OU=TEST,O=CONFLUENT,L=PaloAlto,ST=Ca,C=US`as super user. Documentation for `ssl.principal.mapping.rules`is [here](https://docs.confluent.io/current/kafka/authorization.html#user-names)

Script `certs-create.sh` has:

```
keytool -noprompt -destkeystore kafka.$i.truststore.jks -importkeystore -srckeystore $JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/cacerts -srcstorepass changeit -deststorepass confluent
```

This is because we set for `connect`service:

```yaml
KAFKA_OPTS: -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStore=/etc/kafka/secrets/kafka.connect.truststore.jks
            -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword=confluent
            -Djavax.net.ssl.keyStore=/etc/kafka/secrets/kafka.connect.keystore.jks
            -Djavax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword=confluent
```

It applies to every java component ran on that JVM, and for instance on Connect every connector will then use the given truststore

One example here is that if you use an AWS connector (S3, Kinesis etc) or GCP connector (GCS, SQS, etc..) and do not have AWS cert chain in the given truststore, the connector won't work and raise exception.
The workaround is to import in our truststore the regular JAVA certificates.

Results:

```json
{"f1":"This is a message sent with SSL authentication 1"}
{"f1":"This is a message sent with SSL authentication 2"}
{"f1":"This is a message sent with SSL authentication 3"}
```

N.B: Control Center is reachable at [http://127.0.0.1:9021](http://127.0.0.1:9021])

Commit message:

added possibility to use AZ_USER and AZ_PASS environment variables to login
Former-commit-id: 51e56fa84a747b14b78416e07be61c239c2f9c79 [formerly ddfcd4e3c9bb332b9db806017b3ea6400a7a98db [formerly ba39fc893aafb8330a9c387fe8af141af15a216f]]
Former-commit-id: 83fe25907d3870d9718bee11db2e5a879773c551
Former-commit-id: 997dcc6514c1a8732eff039ec88e86bebb9d1486

connect/connect-azure-data-lake-storage-gen2-sink/README.md, after:

# Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 Sink connector

## Objective

Quickly test [Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 Sink](https://docs.confluent.io/current/connect/kafka-connect-azure-data-lake-gen2-storage/index.html#quick-start) connector.
## Pre-requisites

* `docker-compose` (example `brew cask install docker`)

* `az`(example `brew install azure-cli`)

## How to run

Simply run:

```
$ ./azure-data-lake-storage-gen2.sh
```

Or using 2 way SSL authentication:

```bash
$ ./azure-data-lake-storage-gen2-2way-ssl.sh
```

## Details of what the script is doing

Logging to Azure using browser (or using environment variables `AZ_USER` and `AZ_PASS` if set)

```bash
az login
```

Add the CLI extension for Azure Data Lake Gen 2

```bash
$ az extension add --name storage-preview
```

Creating resource $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP in $AZURE_REGION

```bash
$ az group create \
    --name $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --location $AZURE_REGION
```

Registering active directory App $AZURE_AD_APP_NAME

```bash
$ AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID=$(az ad app create --display-name "$AZURE_AD_APP_NAME" --password mypassword --native-app false --available-to-other-tenants false --query appId -o tsv)
```

Creating Service Principal associated to the App

```bash
$ SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_ID=$(az ad sp create --id $AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID | jq -r '.objectId')
$ AZURE_TENANT_ID=$(az account list | jq -r '.[].tenantId')
$ AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT="https://login.microsoftonline.com/$AZURE_TENANT_ID/oauth2/token"
```

Creating data lake $AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME in resource $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP

```bash
$ az storage account create \
    --name $AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME \
    --resource-group $AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP \
    --location $AZURE_REGION \
    --sku Standard_LRS \
    --kind StorageV2 \
    --hierarchical-namespace true
```

Assigning Storage Blob Data Owner role to Service Principal $SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_ID

```bash
$ az role assignment create --assignee $SERVICE_PRINCIPAL_ID --role "Storage Blob Data Owner"
```

### With no security in place (PLAINTEXT):

The connector is created with:

```bash
$ docker exec -e AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID="$AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID" -e AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME="$AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME" -e AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT="$AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT" connect \
     curl -X PUT \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     --data '{
               "connector.class": "io.confluent.connect.azure.datalake.gen2.AzureDataLakeGen2SinkConnector",
                    "tasks.max": "1",
                    "topics": "datalake_topic",
                    "flush.size": "3",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.client.id": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID"'",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.client.key": "mypassword",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.account.name": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME"'",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.token.endpoint": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT"'",
                    "format.class": "io.confluent.connect.azure.storage.format.avro.AvroFormat",
                    "confluent.license": "",
                    "confluent.topic.bootstrap.servers": "broker:9092",
                    "confluent.topic.replication.factor": "1"
          }' \
     http://localhost:8083/connectors/azure-datalake-gen2-sink/config | jq .
```

Sending messages to topic datalake_topic

```bash
$ seq -f "{\"f1\": \"value%g\"}" 10 | docker exec -i connect kafka-avro-console-producer --broker-list broker:9092 --property schema.registry.url=http://schema-registry:8081 --topic datalake_topic --property value.schema='{"type":"record","name":"myrecord","fields":[{"name":"f1","type":"string"}]}'
```

Listing ${AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_KEY} in Azure Blob Storage

```bash
$ az storage blob list --account-name "${AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME}" --container-name topics
```

Getting one of the avro files locally and displaying content with avro-tools

```bash
$ az storage blob download  --container-name topics --name datalake_topic/partition=0/datalake_topic+0+0000000000.avro --file /tmp/datalake_topic+0+0000000000.avro --account-name "${AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME}"
```

Results:

```json
{"f1":"value1"}
{"f1":"value2"}
{"f1":"value3"}
```

### With SSL authentication:

The connector is created with:

```bash
$ docker exec -e AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID="$AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID" -e AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME="$AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME" -e AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT="$AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT" connect \
     curl -X PUT \
     --cert /etc/kafka/secrets/connect.certificate.pem --key /etc/kafka/secrets/connect.key --tlsv1.2 --cacert /etc/kafka/secrets/snakeoil-ca-1.crt \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     --data '{
               "connector.class": "io.confluent.connect.azure.datalake.gen2.AzureDataLakeGen2SinkConnector",
                    "tasks.max": "1",
                    "topics": "datalake_topic",
                    "flush.size": "3",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.client.id": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_CLIENT_ID"'",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.client.key": "mypassword",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.account.name": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_ACCOUNT_NAME"'",
                    "azure.datalake.gen2.token.endpoint": "'"$AZURE_DATALAKE_TOKEN_ENDPOINT"'",
                    "format.class": "io.confluent.connect.azure.storage.format.avro.AvroFormat",
                    "confluent.license": "",
                    "confluent.topic.bootstrap.servers": "broker:9092",
                    "confluent.topic.replication.factor": "1",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.keystore.location" : "/etc/kafka/secrets/kafka.connect.keystore.jks",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.keystore.password" : "confluent",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.key.password" : "confluent",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.truststore.location" : "/etc/kafka/secrets/kafka.connect.truststore.jks",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.truststore.password" : "confluent",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.keystore.type" : "JKS",
                    "confluent.topic.ssl.truststore.type" : "JKS",
                    "confluent.topic.security.protocol" : "SSL"
          }' \
     https://localhost:8083/connectors/azure-datalake-gen2-sink/config | jq .
```

Notes:

Broker config has `KAFKA_SSL_PRINCIPAL_MAPPING_RULES: RULE:^CN=(.*?),OU=TEST.*$$/$$1/,DEFAULT`. This is because we don't want to set user `CN=connect,OU=TEST,O=CONFLUENT,L=PaloAlto,ST=Ca,C=US`as super user. Documentation for `ssl.principal.mapping.rules`is [here](https://docs.confluent.io/current/kafka/authorization.html#user-names)

Script `certs-create.sh` has:

```
keytool -noprompt -destkeystore kafka.$i.truststore.jks -importkeystore -srckeystore $JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/cacerts -srcstorepass changeit -deststorepass confluent
```

This is because we set for `connect`service:

```yaml
KAFKA_OPTS: -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStore=/etc/kafka/secrets/kafka.connect.truststore.jks
            -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword=confluent
            -Djavax.net.ssl.keyStore=/etc/kafka/secrets/kafka.connect.keystore.jks
            -Djavax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword=confluent
```

It applies to every java component ran on that JVM, and for instance on Connect every connector will then use the given truststore

One example here is that if you use an AWS connector (S3, Kinesis etc) or GCP connector (GCS, SQS, etc..) and do not have AWS cert chain in the given truststore, the connector won't work and raise exception.
The workaround is to import in our truststore the regular JAVA certificates.

Results:

```json
{"f1":"This is a message sent with SSL authentication 1"}
{"f1":"This is a message sent with SSL authentication 2"}
{"f1":"This is a message sent with SSL authentication 3"}
```

N.B: Control Center is reachable at [http://127.0.0.1:9021](http://127.0.0.1:9021])
