troubleshooting/small-retention/README.md, before:

# Test with very small retention (30 seconds)


## Objective

Reproduce an issue


## How to run

Simply run:

```
$ ./start.sh
```

## Details of what the script is doing

**The issue does not happen with CP 5.4.0**

The producer is using old timestamp. In our case hard-coded to `02/13/2020 @ 8:38am (UTC)`. It is configured with acks=all and enable.idempotence=true.

Create a topic `testtopic` with 30 seconds retention and 15 seconds segment:

```bash
$ docker exec broker kafka-topics --create --topic testtopic --partitions 1 --replication-factor 1 --zookeeper zookeeper:2181 --config segment.ms=15000 --config retention.ms=30000 --config message.timestamp.type=CreateTime
```

Note: `message.timestamp.type`=`CreateTime` is default.


With 5.3.1, we get errors in broker:

```log
[2020-02-13 10:13:22,756] ERROR [ReplicaManager broker=1] Error processing append operation on partition testtopic-0 (kafka.server.ReplicaManager)
org.apache.kafka.common.errors.UnknownProducerIdException: Found no record of producerId=0 on the broker at offset 536in partition testtopic-0. It is possible that the last message with the producerId=0 has been removed due to hitting the retention limit.
```

and in producer:

```log
[2020-02-13 10:08:23,413] INFO [Producer clientId=producer-1] Resetting sequence number of batch with current sequence 30 for partition testtopic-0 to 0 (org.apache.kafka.clients.producer.internals.TransactionManager)
[2020-02-13 10:08:23,413] WARN [Producer clientId=producer-1] Got error produce response with correlation id 253 on topic-partition testtopic-0, retrying (2147483646 attempts left). Error: UNKNOWN_PRODUCER_ID (org.apache.kafka.clients.producer.internals.Sender)
Produced record to topic testtopic partition [0] @ offset 239
 and timestamp 1581583089003Sending key=null value=message 240
```

But no duplicate in topic

To fix these errors, we can set `message.timestamp.type`=`LogAppendTime`at topic level


N.B: Control Center is reachable at [http://127.0.0.1:9021](http://127.0.0.1:9021])

Commit message:

Added Producer --> topic testtopic --> Consumer (with Producer) --> topic outputtesttopic
Former-commit-id: b9a6180bcc8bc6559694c18b508c7ca69aceb60f [formerly d066b4290bb90b8be29537568b40ee467e7a6274 [formerly 3e60989639b884b908095f1abb5ab246cd8c4ec7]]
Former-commit-id: 3d6ddb52f813da045fc0e441770bff1ef1eec39b
Former-commit-id: 3464c514f9f6c1dbbec9dc4038248af74e59a818

troubleshooting/small-retention/README.md, after:

# Test with very small retention (30 seconds)


## Objective


Producer --> topic testtopic --> Consumer (with Producer) --> topic outputtesttopic


## How to run

Simply run:

```
$ ./start.sh
```

## Details of what the script is doing

**The issue does not happen with CP 5.4.0**

The producer is using old timestamp. In our case hard-coded to `02/13/2020 @ 8:38am (UTC)`. It is configured with acks=all and enable.idempotence=true.

Create a topic `testtopic` with 30 seconds retention and 15 seconds segment:

```bash
$ docker exec broker kafka-topics --create --topic testtopic --partitions 1 --replication-factor 1 --zookeeper zookeeper:2181 --config segment.ms=15000 --config retention.ms=30000 --config message.timestamp.type=CreateTime
```

Note: `message.timestamp.type`=`CreateTime` is default.


With 5.3.1, we get errors in broker:

```log
[2020-02-13 16:10:24,167] ERROR [ReplicaManager broker=1] Error processing append operation on partition outputtesttopic-0 (kafka.server.ReplicaManager)
org.apache.kafka.common.errors.UnknownProducerIdException: Found no record of producerId=0 on the broker at offset 57in partition outputtesttopic-0. It is possible that the last message with the producerId=0 has been removed due to hitting the retention limit.
```

and in producer:

```log
Processing key null value message 57
[2020-02-13 16:10:24,168] INFO [Producer clientId=producer-1] Resetting sequence number of batch with current sequence 30 for partition outputtesttopic-0 to 0 (org.apache.kafka.clients.producer.internals.TransactionManager)
[2020-02-13 16:10:24,168] WARN [Producer clientId=producer-1] Got error produce response with correlation id 63 on topic-partition outputtesttopic-0, retrying (2147483646 attempts left). Error: UNKNOWN_PRODUCER_ID (org.apache.kafka.clients.producer.internals.Sender)
Produced record to topic outputtesttopic partition [0] @ offset 57
 and timestamp 1581583089003
```

But no duplicate in topic

To fix these errors, we can set `message.timestamp.type`=`LogAppendTime`at topic level


N.B: Control Center is reachable at [http://127.0.0.1:9021](http://127.0.0.1:9021])
